Users might download drivers that include malicious code. 

A person's handwriting is Personally Identifiable Information (PII), especially when it 
comes to your signature. As such, it is unacceptable in many environments to automatically 
upload PII to a website without explicit approval by the user. 

A person's handwriting is Personally Identifiable Information (PII), especially when it 
comes to your signature. As such, it is unacceptable in many environments to automatically 
upload PII to a website without explicit approval by the user. 

In an enterprise managed environment we want to lower the risk of a user unknowingly 
exposing sensitive data. 

Although the risk is minimal, enabling this setting will reduce the possibility of a user 
unknowingly downloading malicious content through this feature. 

Information that is transmitted over HTTP through this capability is not protected and can 
be intercepted by malicious users. For this reason, it is not often used in enterprise 
managed environments. 

Users in an enterprise managed environment should not be registering their own copies of 
Windows, providing their own PII in the process. 

There is a small risk that users will unknowingly reveal sensitive information because of 
the topics they are searching for. This risk is very low because even if this setting is enabled 
users still must submit search queries to the desired search engine in order to perform 
searches. 

In an enterprise managed environment we want to lower the risk of a user unknowingly 
exposing sensitive data. 

Users may publish confidential or sensitive information to a public service outside of the 
control of the organization. 

Large enterprise managed environments may not want to have information collected by 
Microsoft from managed client computers. 

Large enterprise managed environments may not want to have information collected by 
Microsoft from managed client computers. 

If a Windows Error occurs in a secure, enterprise managed environment, the error should 
be reported directly to IT staff for troubleshooting and remediation. There is no benefit to 
the corporation to report these errors directly to Microsoft, and there is some risk of 
unknowingly exposing sensitive data as part of the error. 

This is a way to increase the security of the system account. 

An unauthorized user could disconnect the PC from the network or can connect the PC to 
other available networks without signing into Windows. 

A malicious user could use this feature to gather account names of other users, that 
information could then be used in conjunction with other types of attacks such as guessing 
passwords or social engineering. The value of this countermeasure is small because a user 
with domain credentials could gather the same account information using other methods. 

A malicious user could use this feature to gather account names of other users, that 
information could then be used in conjunction with other types of attacks such as guessing 
passwords or social engineering. The value of this countermeasure is small because a user 
with domain credentials could gather the same account information using other methods. 

App notifications might display sensitive business or personal data. 

Picture passwords bypass the requirement for a typed complex password. In a shared work 
environment, a simple shoulder surf where someone observed the on-screen gestures 
would allow that person to gain access to the system without the need to know the complex 
password. Vertical monitor screens with an image are much more visible at a distance than 
horizontal key strokes, increasing the likelihood of a successful observation of the mouse 
gestures. 

A PIN is created from a much smaller selection of characters than a password, so in most 
cases a PIN will be much less robust than a password. 

Enabling this setting ensures that anyone who wakes an unattended computer from sleep 
state will have to provide logon credentials before they can access the system. 

Enabling this setting ensures that anyone who wakes an unattended computer from sleep 
state will have to provide logon credentials before they can access the system. 

A user might be tricked and accept an unsolicited Remote Assistance offer from a malicious 
user. 

There is slight risk that a rogue administrator will gain access to another user's desktop 
session, however, they cannot connect to a user's computer unannounced or control it 
without permission from the user. When an expert tries to connect, the user can still 
choose to deny the connection or give the expert view-only privileges. The user must 
explicitly click the Yes button to allow the expert to remotely control the workstation. 

Anonymous access to RPC services could result in accidental disclosure of information to 
unauthenticated users. 

Unauthenticated RPC communication can create a security vulnerability. 
   

Due to privacy concerns, data should never be sent to any 3rd party since this data could 
contain sensitive information. 

When enabled the aggregated data of a given event will be transmitted to Microsoft. The 
option exists to restrict this feature for a specific user, set the consent level, and designate 
specific programs for which error reports could be sent. However, centrally restricting the 
ability to execute PerfTrack to limit the potential for unauthorized or undesired usage, data 
leakage, or unintentional communications is highly recommended. 

Tracking user activity for advertising purposes, even anonymously, may be a privacy 
concern. In an enterprise managed environment, applications should not need or require 
tracking for targeted advertising. 

A reliable and accurate account of time is important for a number of services and security 
requirements, including but not limited to distributed applications, authentication services, 
multi-user databases and logging services. The use of an NTP client (with secure operation) 
establishes functional accuracy and is a focal point when reviewing security relevant 
events 
   


The configuration of proper time synchronization is critically important in an enterprise 
managed environment both due to the sensitivity of Kerberos authentication timestamps 
and also to ensure accurate security logging. 

Enabling this setting allows an organization to use their enterprise user accounts instead of 
using their Microsoft accounts when accessing Windows store apps. This provides the 
organization with greater control over relevant credentials. Microsoft accounts cannot be 
centrally managed and as such enterprise credential security policies cannot be applied to 
them, which could put any information accessed by using Microsoft accounts at risk. 

An attacker could use this feature to launch a program to damage a client computer or data 
on the computer. 

Prior to Windows Vista, when media containing an autorun command is inserted, the 
system will automatically execute the program without user intervention. This creates a 
major security concern as code may be executed without user's knowledge. The default 
behavior starting with Windows Vista is to prompt the user whether autorun command is 
to be run. The autorun command is represented as a handler in the Autoplay dialog. 

An attacker could use this feature to launch a program to damage a client computer or data 
on the computer. 

This is a useful feature when entering a long and complex password, especially when using 
a touchscreen. The potential risk is that someone else may see your password while 
surreptitiously observing your screen. 

Users could see the list of administrator accounts, making it slightly easier for a malicious 
user who has logged onto a console session to try to crack the passwords of those accounts. 

EMET mitigations help reduce the reliability of exploits that target vulnerable software 
running on Windows. 

These advanced mitigations for ROP mitigations apply to all configured software in EMET: 
  Deep Hooks protects critical APIs and the subsequent lower level APIs used by the 
top level critical API. 
  Anti Detours renders ineffective exploits that evade hooks by executing a copy of 
the hooked function prologue and then jump to the function past the prologue. 
  Banned Functions will block calls to ntdll!LdrHotPatchRoutine to mitigate 
potential exploits abusing the API. 

Applying EMET mitigations to Internet Explorer will help reduce the reliability of exploits 
that target it. 

Applying EMET mitigations to popular software packages will help reduce the reliability of 
exploits that target them. 

Applying EMET mitigations to recommended software will help reduce the reliability of 
exploits that target them. 

ASLR reduces the predictability of process memory, which in-turn helps reduce the 
reliability of exploits targeting memory corruption vulnerabilities. 

DEP marks pages of application memory as non-executable, which reduces a given exploit's 
ability to run attacker-controlled code. 

When a software component suffers from a memory corruption vulnerability, an exploit 
may be able to overwrite memory that contains data structures that control how the 
software handles exceptions. By corrupting these structures in a controlled manner, an 
exploit may be able to execute arbitrary code. SEHOP verifies the integrity of those 
structures before they are used to handle exceptions, which reduces the reliability of 
exploits that leverage structured exception handler overwrites. 

If new events are not recorded it may be difficult or impossible to determine the root cause 
of system problems or the unauthorized activities of malicious users. 

If events are not recorded it may be difficult or impossible to determine the root cause of 
system problems or the unauthorized activities of malicious users. 

If new events are not recorded it may be difficult or impossible to determine the root cause 
of system problems or the unauthorized activities of malicious users. 

If events are not recorded it may be difficult or impossible to determine the root cause of 
system problems or the unauthorized activities of malicious users. 

If new events are not recorded it may be difficult or impossible to determine the root cause 
of system problems or the unauthorized activities of malicious users. 

If events are not recorded it may be difficult or impossible to determine the root cause of 
system problems or the unauthorized activities of malicious users 

If new events are not recorded it may be difficult or impossible to determine the root cause 
of system problems or the unauthorized activities of malicious users. 

If events are not recorded it may be difficult or impossible to determine the root cause of 
system problems or the unauthorized activities of malicious users 

Data Execution Prevention is an important security feature supported by Explorer that 
helps to limit the impact of certain types of malware. 

Allowing an application to function after its session has become corrupt increases the risk 
posture to the system. 

Limiting the opening of files and folders to a limited set reduces the attack surface of the 
system. 

This setting affects the Windows Location Provider feature (e.g. GPS or other location 
tracking). From a security perspective, it’s not a good idea to reveal your location to 
software in most cases, but there are legitimate uses, such as mapping software. However, 
they should not be used in high security environments. 

This setting affects the location feature (e.g. GPS or other location tracking). From a 
security perspective, it’s not a good idea to reveal your location to software in most cases, 
but there are legitimate uses, such as mapping software. However, they should not be used 
in high security environments. 

Enabling this setting prevents users from accidentally (or intentionally) uploading 
confidential or sensitive corporate information to the OneDrive cloud service using the 
Next Generation Sync Client. 
Note: This security concern applies to any cloud-based file storage application installed on 
a server, not just the one supplied with Windows Server. 

Enabling this setting prevents users from accidentally (or intentionally) uploading 
confidential or sensitive corporate information to the OneDrive cloud service using the 
legacy OneDrive/SkyDrive client. 
Note: This security concern applies to any cloud-based file storage application installed on 
a server, not just the one supplied with Windows Server. 

An attacker with physical access to the computer may be able to break the protection 
guarding saved passwords. An attacker who compromises a user's account and connects to 
their computer could use saved passwords to gain access to additional hosts.   

This setting ensures that users & administrators who Remote Desktop to a server will 
continue to use the same session - if they disconnect and reconnect, they will go back to the 
same session they were using before, preventing the creation of a second simultaneous 
session. This both prevents unnecessary resource usage by having the server host 
unnecessary additional sessions (which would put extra load on the server) and also 
ensures a consistency of experience for the user. 

In a more security-sensitive environment, it is desirable to reduce the possible attack 
surface. The need for COM port redirection within a Remote Desktop session is very rare, 
so makes sense to reduce the number of unexpected avenues for data exfiltration and/or 
malicious code transfer. 

Data could be forwarded from the user's Remote Desktop Services session to the user's 
local computer without any direct user interaction. Malicious software already present on a 
compromised server would have direct and stealthy disk access to the user's local 
computer during the Remote Desktop session. 

In a more security-sensitive environment, it is desirable to reduce the possible attack 
surface. The need for LPT port redirection within a Remote Desktop session is very rare, so 
makes sense to reduce the number of unexpected avenues for data exfiltration and/or 
malicious code transfer. 

In a more security-sensitive environment, it is desirable to reduce the possible attack 
surface. The need for Plug and Play device redirection within a Remote Desktop session is 
very rare, so makes sense to reduce the number of unexpected avenues for data exfiltration 
and/or malicious code transfer. 

Users have the option to store both their username and password when they create a new 
Remote Desktop Connection shortcut. If the server that runs Remote Desktop Services 
allows users who have used this feature to log on to the server but not enter their 
password, then it is possible that an attacker who has gained physical access to the user's 
computer could connect to a Remote Desktop Server through the Remote Desktop 
Connection shortcut, even though they may not know the user's password. 

Allowing unsecure RPC communication can exposes the server to man in the middle attacks 
and data disclosure attacks. 

The native Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP) encryption is now considered a weak protocol, 
so enforcing the use of stronger Transport Layer Security (TLS) encryption for all RDP 
communications between clients and RD Session Host servers is preferred. 

Requiring that user authentication occur earlier in the remote connection process 
enhances security. 

If Remote Desktop client connections that use low level encryption are allowed, it is more 
likely that an attacker will be able to decrypt any captured Remote Desktop Services 
network traffic. 

This setting helps to prevent active Remote Desktop sessions from tying up the computer 
for long periods of time while not in use, preventing computing resources from being 
consumed by large numbers of inactive sessions. In addition, old, forgotten Remote 
Desktop sessions that are still active can cause password lockouts if the user's password 
has changed but the old session is still running. For systems that limit the number of 
connected users (e.g. servers in the default Administrative mode - 2 sessions only), other 
users' old but still active sessions can prevent another user from connecting, resulting in an 
effective denial of service. 


This setting helps to prevent active Remote Desktop sessions from tying up the computer 
for long periods of time while not in use, preventing computing resources from being 
consumed by large numbers of disconnected but still active sessions. In addition, old, 
forgotten Remote Desktop sessions that are still active can cause password lockouts if the 
user's password has changed but the old session is still running. For systems that limit the 
number of connected users (e.g. servers in the default Administrative mode - 2 sessions 
only), other users' old but still active sessions can prevent another user from connecting, 
resulting in an effective denial of service. This setting is important to ensure a disconnected 
session is properly terminated. 

Sensitive information could be contained inside the temporary folders and visible to other 
administrators that log into the system. 

Disabling this setting keeps the cached data independent for each session, both reducing 
the chance of problems from shared cached data between sessions, and keeping possibly 
sensitive data separate to each user session. 

Allowing attachments to be downloaded through the RSS feed can introduce files that could 
have malicious intent. 

Indexing and allowing users to search encrypted files could potentially reveal confidential 
data stored within the encrypted files. 
   


Limiting the search information shared with Microsoft Bing enhances privacy and security. 

Even though the KMS licensing method does not require KMS clients to connect to 
Microsoft, they still send KMS client activation state data to Microsoft automatically. 
Preventing this information from being sent can help reduce privacy concerns in high 
security environments. 

The decision on whether or not to participate in Microsoft MAPS / Windows Defender 
Antivirus Cloud Protection Service for malicious software reporting should be made 
centrally in an enterprise managed environment, so that all computers within it behave 
consistently in that regard. Configuring this setting to Disabled ensures that the decision 
remains centrally managed. 

The information that would be sent can include things like location of detected items on 
your computer if harmful software was removed. The information would be automatically 
collected and sent. In some instances personal information might unintentionally be sent to 
Microsoft. However, Microsoft states that it will not use this information to identify you or 
contact you. 
For privacy reasons in high security environments, it is best to prevent these data 
submissions altogether. 

When running an antivirus solution such as Windows Defender Antivirus, it is important to 
ensure that it is configured to heuristically monitor in real-time for suspicious and known 
malicious activity. 

Watson events are the reports that get sent to Microsoft when a program or service crashes 
or fails, including the possibility of automatic submission. Preventing this information from 
being sent can help reduce privacy concerns. 

It is important to ensure that any present removable drives are always included in any type 
of scan, as removable drives are more likely to contain malicious software brought in to the 
enterprise managed environment from an external, unmanaged computer. 

Incoming e-mails should be scanned by an antivirus solution such as Windows Defender 
Antivirus, as email attachments are a commonly used attack vector to infiltrate computers 
with malicious software. 

It is important to ensure a current, updated antivirus product is scanning each computer 
for malicious file activity. Microsoft provides a competent solution out of the box in 
Windows Defender Antivirus. 
Organizations that choose to purchase a reputable 3rd-party antivirus solution may choose 
to exempt themselves from this recommendation in lieu of the commercial alternative. 

Windows SmartScreen helps keep PCs safer by warning users before running unrecognized 
programs downloaded from the Internet. However, due to the fact that some information is 
sent to Microsoft about files and programs run on PCs some organizations may prefer to 
disable it. 
   
 

Error reports may contain sensitive information and should not be sent to anyone 
automatically. 

Memory dumps may contain sensitive information and should not be automatically sent to 
anyone. 

In an enterprise managed environment, only IT staff with administrative rights should be 
installing or changing software on a system. Allowing users the ability to have any control 
over installs can risk unapproved software from being installed or removed from a system, 
which could cause the system to become vulnerable to compromise. 

Users with limited privileges can exploit this feature by creating a Windows Installer 
installation package that creates a new local account that belongs to the local built-in 
Administrators group, adds their current account to the local built-in Administrators group, 
installs malicious software, or performs other unauthorized activities. 

Suppressing the system warning can pose a security risk and increase the attack surface on 
the system. 

Disabling this feature will prevent the caching of user's credentials and unauthorized use of 
the device, and also ensure the user is aware of the restart. 

There are potential risks of capturing passwords in the PowerShell logs. This setting should 
only be needed for debugging purposes, and not in normal operation, it is important to 
ensure this is set to Disabled. 
   

If this setting is enabled there is a risk that passwords could get stored in plain text in the 
PowerShell_transcript output file. 

Basic authentication is less robust than other authentication methods available in WinRM 
because credentials including passwords are transmitted in plain text. An attacker who is 
able to capture packets on the network where WinRM is running may be able to determine 
the credentials used for accessing remote hosts via WinRM. 
   


Encrypting WinRM network traffic reduces the risk of an attacker viewing or modifying 
WinRM messages as they transit the network. 

Digest authentication is less robust than other authentication methods available in WinRM, 
an attacker who is able to capture packets on the network where WinRM is running may be 
able to determine the credentials used for accessing remote hosts via WinRM. 

Basic authentication is less robust than other authentication methods available in WinRM 
because credentials including passwords are transmitted in plain text. An attacker who is 
able to capture packets on the network where WinRM is running may be able to determine 
the credentials used for accessing remote hosts via WinRM. 

Any feature is a potential avenue of attack, those that enable inbound network connections 
are particularly risky. Only enable the use of the Windows Remote Management (WinRM) 
service on trusted networks and when feasible employ additional controls such as IPsec. 

Encrypting WinRM network traffic reduces the risk of an attacker viewing or modifying 
WinRM messages as they transit the network. 

Although the ability to store RunAs credentials is a convenient feature it increases the risk 
of account compromise slightly. For example, if you forget to lock your desktop before 
leaving it unattended for a few minutes another person could access not only the desktop 
of your computer but also any hosts you manage via WinRM with cached RunAs 
credentials. 

Any feature is a potential avenue of attack, those that enable inbound network connections 
are particularly risky. Only enable the use of the Windows Remote Shell on trusted 
networks and when feasible employ additional controls such as IPsec. 

Although each version of Windows is thoroughly tested before release, it is possible that 
problems will be discovered after the products are shipped. The Configure Automatic 
Updates setting can help you ensure that the computers in your environment will always 
have the most recent critical operating system updates and service packs installed. 

Although each version of Windows is thoroughly tested before release, it is possible that 
problems will be discovered after the products are shipped. The Configure Automatic 
Updates setting can help you ensure that the computers in your environment will always 
have the most recent critical operating system updates and service packs installed. 

Some security updates require that the computer be restarted to complete an installation. If 
the computer cannot restart automatically, then the most recent update will not completely 
install and no new updates will download to the computer until it is restarted. Without the 
auto-restart functionality, users who are not security-conscious may choose to indefinitely 
delay the restart, therefore keeping the computer in a less secure state. 

If a user forgets to lock their computer when they walk away, it is possible that a passerby 
will hijack it. Configuring a timed screen saver with password lock will help to protect 
against these hijacks. 

If a user forgets to lock their computer when they walk away, it is possible that a passerby 
will hijack it. Configuring a timed screen saver with password lock will help to protect 
against these hijacks. 

If a user forgets to lock their computer when they walk away, it is possible that a passerby 
will hijack it. Configuring a timed screen saver with password lock will help to protect 
against these hijacks. 

If a user forgets to lock their computer when they walk away, it is possible that a passerby 
will hijack it. Configuring a timed screen saver with password lock will help to protect 
against these hijacks. 

While this feature can be handy for users, applications that provide toast notifications 
might display sensitive personal or business data while the device is left unattended. 

Large enterprise managed environments may not want to have information collected by 
Microsoft from managed client computers. 

A file that is downloaded from a computer in the Internet or Restricted Sites zone may be 
moved to a location that makes it appear safe, like an intranet file share, and executed by an 
unsuspecting user. The Attachment Manager feature will warn users when opening or 
executing files which are marked as being from an untrusted source, unless/until the file's 
zone information has been removed. 

Antivirus programs that do not perform on-access checks may not be able to scan 
downloaded files. 

If not properly configured, a user could accidentally share sensitive data with unauthorized 
users. In an enterprise managed environment, the company should provide a managed 
location for file sharing, such as a file server or SharePoint, instead of the user sharing files 
directly from their own user profile. 

Users with limited privileges can exploit this feature by creating a Windows Installer 
installation package that creates a new local account that belongs to the local built-in 
Administrators group, adds their current account to the local built-in Administrators group, 
installs malicious software, or performs other unauthorized activities. 

This has some potential for risk if a malicious data file is opened in Media Player that 
requires an additional codec to be installed. If a special codec is required for a necessary 
job function, then that codec should first be tested to ensure it is legitimate, and it should 
be supplied by the IT department in the organization. 

